---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---


## Working Papers
1. [Taxing Top Incomes in a World of Entrepreneurs](../files/JMP.pdf)     
   <details><summary>Abstract</summary>   
   This paper shows that high top marginal income tax rates generate large aggregate output and productivity losses. These losses arise because taxes distort decisions of entrepreneurs, who constitute a large share of high income earners. I identify two novel distortions. The first one is the "productivity investment effect". Top income tax rates distort the productivity accumulation decisions not only of entrepreneurs who are already in the top income bracket but also of those who will become top earners in the future by building up their firms. This is because households are forward looking. Anticipating that they will be subject to the high top income tax rate in the future, these middle-income entrepreneurs find it less optimal to accumulate productivity for their firms now. As a result, they slow down their productivity accumulation process. The second force is the "incorporation timing effect". Successful entrepreneurs grow their firms and then sell their businesses to the corporate sector through incorporation. High top tax rates push these entrepreneurs to sell before their firms reach their full productivity potential. This force is driven by a feature of the tax code: the sale of a firm is treated as capital gains, which are taxed at a lower rate than ordinary income. Therefore, when the top income tax rate gets higher, entrepreneurs tend to use incorporation as a tax shelter and incorporate their firms earlier. Early incorporation timing means entrepreneurs do not have enough time to grow their firms to their full productivity potential. These prematurely incorporated businesses lower productivity in the corporate sector. Both effects imply that even though it targets only a small fraction of households, increasing the top marginal income tax rate generates large output costs by decreasing productivity. Since lower productivity erodes the tax base, in a calibrated model, the revenue-maximizing top income tax rate is 45%.
   </details>

2. Inheritance, Wealth Distribution, and Estate Taxation (*Under major revision*)  
   <details><summary>Abstract</summary>
   The estate tax has been considered by its supporters as a natural way to reduce wealth inequality because it targets the wealthy directly. However, this conclusion relies heavily on the underlying assumption that inheritance plays a crucial role in wealth accumulation for the rich. Using data from the Survey of Consumer Finances, this paper exhibits novel evidence about wealthy households and the inheritance they have received. Specifically: 1) less than 14% of the richest one percent's wealth is directly attributable to inheritances. 2) More than half of the top one percent by wealth do not receive any inheritances over their lifetime. Then, in a quantitative model that accounts for novel facts on inheritance received by the rich, this paper finds that even if the estate tax rate were raised to 100 percent, the top one percent wealth holding would drop by only 3.5 percentage points. Moreover, compared with taxing the incomes of the top one percent earners, taxing estates generates a large output loss for a given amount of wealth redistribution, suggesting that estate taxation may not be an effective tool for wealth redistribution.
   </details>
   
## Work in Progress
1. What Should We Tax, Capital, Wealth, or Inheritance?
   <details><summary>Abstract</summary>
   In recent decades, wealth inequality has become an increasingly prominent issue in many developed countries. The United States, in particular, has seen significant increases in wealth gaps, sparking fierce debates over how best to address the issue. One of the most contentious proposals has been the idea of redistributive policies, including calls to tax capital income, wealth, and inheritance. In this paper, we examine the impacts of capital income, wealth, and estate taxation within a quantitative framework. In contrast to existing studies, we also investigate joint reforms, in which the government can simultaneously modify the schedules for all three taxes.
   </details>

2. Entrepreneurship and Informality in Developing Countries 
   (with *Roberto Lagos Mondragon*)
   <details><summary>Abstract</summary>   
   The informal sector is a prominent feature of developing countries. Formal businesses are those registered with the government, while informal firms operate without tax authority registration but are legal in all other respects. These high informality levels have important consequences for development. Not surprisingly, the questions of how the informal sector affects the aggregate economy and how to induce informal firms to formalize have motivated a large literature as well as an intense policy debate. So far, the literature studies the informal sector by focusing on either workers or firms, leaving entrepreneurship in this context relatively unexplored. Understanding the entrepreneurial decisions between formal and informal businesses will draw new insights into evaluating government policies for effective formalization strategies, addressing issues such as resource misallocation, total factor productivity losses, and other aspects of economic development.<br/>
   <br/><br/>
   Using the Brazilian National Household Sample Survey (PNAD) data, we present three main findings. First, surprisingly, over one-third of entrepreneurs in the top income decile of the entire Brazilian population operate businesses in the informal sector. Second, formal sector entrepreneurs are primarily concentrated in higher income groups, with 29.2% of them belonging to the top income decile and 61.5% to income deciles 8-10. Lastly, we observe that informal sector entrepreneurs in the top income group are more likely to switch to the formal sector, while formal sector entrepreneurs in the bottom income group are more likely to switch to the informal sector. These observations, particularly the first and third, are quite novel to the literature.<br/>
   <br/><br/>
   We propose a general equilibrium, life-cycle, heterogeneous agent model to reconcile these empirical observations. The model incorporates occupation choice and learning, where households are endowed with working productivity and business quality. Each period, households decide between wage work and entrepreneurship, and if they choose entrepreneurship, they further decide between the formal and informal sectors. While working productivity is observable, true business quality is not. Instead, households update their beliefs about business quality through starting a business and production. For most entrepreneurs, it is optimal to conduct this learning process in the informal sector due to lower operation costs. High business quality entrepreneurs with better belief then choose to switch to the formal sector to gain access to financial markets and to expand their firm size without government detection concerns.<br/>
   <br/><br/> 
   We then calibrate this model to match empirical moments. The calibrated model serves as a laboratory for conducting policy experiments.
   </details>
